by David White of Texas A&M University on April the
22nd, 1989, concerning the Vietnam War. In the
interest of accumulating knowledge about the
war, I'm going to donate this tape to the Texas A&M
Oral History Collection in the University
Archives. Is that all right with you? That's fine
with me, David. All right. And you are, of course,
Tom Rugg. You were born when? May 5th of 1948. So
would you classify yourself a baby boomer then? I
think I'm right on baby boomer age, yeah. And you
were born where? In Denver, Colorado. Denver,
Colorado. Were you up there? No, I didn't. I grew up
all over the country. My dad was and still is in the
oil business, in the engineering end of it. And
they seemed to think it important that you move
periodically. So we did. So where did you end up
spending your high school years? My sophomore
year in high school I spent in Wichita, Kansas. My
junior year in high school I spent in Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma. And my senior year in high school I
spent in Hobbs, New Mexico. New Mexico. So you
really weren't near any of the What would be
traditionally classified as the hot spots of the
nation, like Berkeley or New York or any of those
places? No. Now, what do you remember about
Kennedy? What was your first recollection of
Kennedy? You must have been 12 years old at the
time. Yeah, I guess my first recollections about
Kennedy...
would have been at about age 12. And I guess the
strongest recollection and impression I have
about John Kennedy was the fact that he was a
Catholic, which my parents seemed to think, in the
political scheme of things, was extremely
important, they being Protestants. They thought
it was important in a negative sense. So they were,
in a sense, against Kennedy for that reason. Well,
my parents were and always have been very closely
aligned with the Republican Party. So John
Kennedy being the nominee of the Democratic Party
was not going to be their favorite son in any event.
But the fact that he was Catholic was very
important. And I remember from my own personal
perspectives at that age that he was a very
impressive figure. I thought his accent was a
little strange and the way he said words was funny,
but I still think that about Massachusetts
people. I see. Now, you mentioned your parents
were Republican. Would that say they were
conservative? Yes, I would classify them as
conservatives then and now. Were you, to an
extent, influenced by your parents' views, or
were you... offset by it? Yeah, I think it probably
went the other way. Certainly, pre-teenager, I
was influenced by their views. But as I reached
teenage status and on towards adulthood, I think I
became much more rebellious in my attitude toward
my parents. in my views today are in a lot of
respects very much opposed to the kinds of
conservative traditional political views that
they held and still hold. What do you think was the
major turning point during your pre-teen high
school years that sort of made you turn away from
your parents' conservative views? I'm not sure I
can pinpoint. any one thing. It may be a part of just
the natural growing up process that all
adolescents go through. The desire and want to be
independent and the need to develop and assert
your own identity is inherently inconsistent
with adopting parental views. But I can't
pinpoint any single event or period of time. when I
became more rebellious towards my parents. Would
you have classified yourself as an interested
teenager? Meaning that, did you keep up to date
with world events and national events and such?
Oh, yeah. That was something that seemed to just
naturally be a part of whatever group I was with of
peers. Those were important events to the people
that I ran with, and I guess so far as I knew,
although I would have had no way to know different,
they were important to everybody. Do you remember
watching any of the civil rights marches on
television? Oh, yeah. Very much so. What were your
impressions?
I guess you get a little different perspective
about the civil rights movement when you're not
stuck in any one place. Let's pause this thing for
just a minute. So we were talking about civil
rights. Continue, please. Yeah, for example, you
got different views from different parts of the
country. Wichita, Kansas was a very interesting
town and was then very racially polarized. The
part of Oklahoma City when I was in my junior year in
high school that I was familiar with was not,
although I do have some very distinct
remembrances and impressions about the first
black students to come to the high school when I was
there. And then Hobbs, New Mexico, there was a one
high school town, a much smaller community, And
the community attitude was, you know, black
people were black and white people were white.
Nobody paid it much attention. It wasn't a big
issue. So depending on where you were, that was the
kind of backgrounds you were being exposed to. And
I think my attitude was one kind of amusement. I
never really... understood how you could form any
definite opinions or attitudes about people
based solely on their appearance or the color of
their skin. And I don't know where that attitude
came from. Certainly not necessarily a
traditional conservative attitude. So would you
say that growing up in that, going to school in that
one high school town sort of helped to solidify
your views on race relations, just to the point
where it doesn't matter? Yeah, I think that was a,
certainly of the communities that I grew up in,
that was far and away the best community in terms of
not having racial tension or racial issues be
important, and that's a much more comfortable
atmosphere to live in. What do you think about
Kennedy's attitude towards civil rights? Well, I
don't know. I guess I thought, you know, at that
point in time, I'd never lived in the South, the
Deep South, which seemed to be the focus of an awful
lot of the racial problems. The big cities seemed
to be the other focus outside of the South. And I
guess it sort of seemed like to me that that his
approach to racial issues, at least as I
understood it, one of equality fit with my idea of
what America was all about. I guess I agreed with
him. I never really had much of a problem with it.
You mentioned what America was all about. What was
America all about? Well, to me, America was all
about everybody gets an even shot and a fair shake
and right wins and wrong loses. pretty idealistic
attitude, I guess, but I think it's a right one and
one, I think, that still prevails is my attitude
about America, although I've learned that for
right to prevail can be a long and hard struggle and
doesn't happen overnight. I see that. He said
everyone deserved an even shot and a fair shake.
Yeah, and I thought that America was designed to
give that opportunity to people, and I think still
does in the overall generic sense, although in
individual cases there are certainly going to be
sharp contrasts and differences and
opportunities if you focus on the individual. But
if you look at the country as a whole, As a general
rule, a person's ability to achieve and succeed
and be happy generally depends on individual
choices that an individual is more or less free to
make. You know, there are some outside
constraints on choices that may be reflected or
affected by background or community or things of
that nature. But in the overall sense, as a big
picture, basically the choices you make dictate
the happiness you have. Did you think at the time
that everyone should have this all over the world
or just Americans? I never really thought much in
terms of world politics and still don't, I guess.
I know I went through a period of time where it
seemed like to me the type of government, the name
you hang upon on a particular type of government
probably wasn't all that important. But if it was,
it was in another place far removed from anything
that I cared much about. in a lot of ways
characterized my attitude about the Vietnam War.
You know, it's halfway around the world. I figured
those people had a right to self-determination.
They ought to work it out themselves. When was the
first time you remember hearing about Vietnam? I
can't remember the first time. Obviously it was in
high school because we had the draft in those days.
And people of draft age were being sent to Vietnam,
and they were fighting there, and they were dying.
And that was true in the early 60s and became much
more true in the later 60s as I approached draft age
and graduation from high school. And I know at some
point in time in there, it was probably the single
most important topic that young men talked about.
So you would classify your feelings in high school
concerned but apathetic? I was apathetic towards
Vietnam as a country. I think I still am. It doesn't
matter to me whether Vietnam is under the
influence of a communist form of government. or a
populist form of government or a democratic form
of government, I don't care. It just doesn't
matter to me. It seems to me that that's a problem
for the people who live in Vietnam to solve their
own way in whatever way it takes to solve that. I
don't think it's any of my business to intervene or
interfere in that. So that was my attitude about
Vietnam as a country and as a people. My attitude
about U.S. involvement in Vietnam was very much
different because that was very personal and was
becoming more and more personal as time went by
because it had a significant possibility of
affecting me directly. Would you say at the time
you had a great fear of death? Well, let's say that I
certainly wasn't looking forward to ending my
life on a premature basis, although I think like
many teenage boys, occasionally I did some things
that would make you wonder if I really believed
that. But as a general proposition, death was sort
of an unknown thing and something that I thought
should happen to old people and not young people. I
still think that's true. Did you know personally
anyone in high school that was drafted before you
graduated, say someone from the class or two ahead
of you? Now that was, I guess that was one of the
things I was insulated from because in three years
I was in three different cities in three different
states. I lost track of the older people. And I have
an older sister who's two and a half years older
than me, so she was far enough removed that her
friends were not people that I really knew. You
know, being two years apart in high school is like a
lifetime away from each other. So no, I didn't, at
the time I registered for the draft, the people I
knew who were registered for the draft and being
drafted were my peers, people the summer I came out
of high school were the people I knew who were being
drafted.
Now, so you... You were of draft status. Let me ask
to put it to you this way. What was your draft status
when you left high school? I believe they called it
1A back in those days. You were the hot number. You
knew that when you got out of high school that the
odds are you were going to be called up. Sure. Well,
you didn't know what the odds were in those days,
but you were certainly a draft status eligible
student. And for a combination of reasons,
college student deferments were very much
available in the early 60s. And by the time, as were
married deferments in the early 60s, if you were
married, they wouldn't draft you. As we reached
the mid-60s, and I graduated in 1966, suddenly
student deferments became very elusive for some
people. And married deferment by then had been
dropped altogether. So there were a number of
things. you could do to try to go on with your life
that didn't guarantee your life wasn't going to be
interrupted by a call from the Selective Service
System and you entering the military. So you were
1A when you got out of high school? I was 1A when I got
out of high school. What were your thoughts when
you got out of high school? Were you planning on
going to college? Oh, I went to college
immediately. I started the summer but I graduated
from high school and went directly into college.
Where was that? At New Mexico State University.
And so you had a 2S deferment? No, I did not. I was
never able to quite put a handle on why it was my
draft board refused me a student deferment
status, but they did, and I was never 2S throughout
the existence of the draft. It was a rather strange
set of circumstances. I always suspected that
because I had registered late for the draft, that
perhaps I had gotten a special flag on my record.
But at any rate, I applied for and was denied
student deferment status. Was there any
particular reason why you registered late? Well,
at that point in time, I know that I was very
reluctant to register for the draft. I had
formulated a definite opinion by that point in
time that the war in Vietnam was wrong for America,
probably wrong generally, but wrong for me
personally. My father made me register for the
draft. He was right. It was the law. I needed to do
it. So I was late.
While you were going to school at New Mexico State,
you were still in danger of being drafted. Oh,
absolutely. And at the end of my second semester,
they tried to draft me. What happened? Well, the
first effort they made at drafting me, I got a
letter in the mail and decided that maybe New
Mexico wasn't such a good place to be. My folks had
moved to Beaumont, Texas by then, and I thought it
would be a good time to visit, so I did. Did you
withdraw from school? No. I visited down here and
contacted the local draft board here to have them
transfer my draft papers from Lovington, New
Mexico to Beaumont, Texas. They started without
question, started the paperwork, the wheels in
motion, whatever government forms they had to
fill out, they filled those out and fired them off.
I told them I was going to be a permanent resident
here. Very shortly after that, I was only here a
couple of weeks, I went back to New Mexico State
University. And by moving back and forth, just
simply attempted to have the Selective Service
System lose Tom Ruck. They did for a period of time.
After And I forget what it was. It was a month or two.
They found me through my grandmother Rugg in
Denver, Colorado, who's now deceased, who called
my parents in Beaumont who were in a panic wanting,
grandmother was in a panic wanting to know why the
Army was looking for me. I wasn't in the Army. And
called my parents in Beaumont. And my dad turned
the tide again. and told me that basically this
wasn't the way you played the game with these
folks. You could end up in prison doing this kind of
stuff. And I actually underwent a pre-induction
physical for the military in El Paso sometime
during my third semester, which would have been
the spring of 67. You went into your physical.
Yeah, I flunked the physical. That was the only
good thing that happened to me. In my experiences
with the military, I ran across some military
doctors, and apparently these guys had a
tremendous attitude. You can't believe this,
knowing that probably half the guys who were there
for their pre-induction physical, or maybe more,
were there basically against their will and
desires. These guys acted like I was going to have
some tremendous disappointment if they didn't
pass me on my physical and let me into the military.
I had an acne condition. that had, as many
teenagers do, and it was on my chest and arms. And
they decided that military clothing would
aggravate that condition. I thought just the
style of military clothing was going to aggravate
my attitude. But they decided to give me a medical
deferment for one year. It was called a one-wide
deferment. And they gave me a one-wide deferment.
from the military. So for about a year or so you were
basically off scot-free? Yeah, the deal was you
were supposed to go back after the end of the year,
they'd send you a notice, you'd come back and take a
physical again and they'd decide if you were fit to
go at that point. Well, I moved to Beaumont again.
At the end of that spring semester, a combination
of events, I really had to move to Beaumont again.
The school had found out that my parents No longer
lived in New Mexico, therefore I managed to attain
non-resident status. And the tuition went up,
obviously. The tuition increase was staggering,
and I couldn't afford school there, so I came to
Beaumont. Got a job and went to work. Had my papers
transferred again back to the Beaumont draft
board, and went to work for That summer and the next
school fall semester, I entered Lamar the
semester after that. You said the other guys at the
draft board were generally not in a mood to be going
to the draft board and saying, hey, I want to come
in? Oh, the guys that were there for the physicals?
Yes. Oh, yeah. Of course, you always have and you
always will have I suppose you always will have,
the people who are really gung-ho military types.
And they're fine. Everybody's got to do their own
thing. It'd be dull as hell if we were all alike. And
you had those kind there who were not students, had
graduated from high school, and were looking for a
place to go, and they were going to land in the
military. But you had a lot of students or people
who had flunked out of college, people who were not
terribly interested in the military, who were
also there for their physicals. You know, you had
some conversations with the people in your close
physical area. I mean, they must have run through
200 at a time. But you had some conversations with
people on, hey, who are you, why are you here, that
kind of thing. Enough to know that I wasn't the only
person there who didn't want to be. Would you
characterize their feelings as just general, I
don't want to go over there and die, or were they
specifically saying what we're doing is wrong, I
don't want to go, I'm a conscientious objector,
that sort of thing? No, I think there was a lot of,
you had a lot of the people who it was really more of a
fear and apprehension of the prospect of going and
getting in a war and getting shot at and killed. The
really strong, true, conscientious objectors I
don't think ever saw the pre-induction physical
process. I think a lot of those people ended up in
other countries, if the draft board could ever run
them down. This is a bit off the subject, but you
were, being in El Paso, you were close to Mexico.
Did the thought ever occur to you of maybe going
over to Mexico and hanging out for a while? No, the
thought occurred to me to go to Canada. economic
situation in Canada is a little bit more conducive
than it is in Mexico, plus your chances of
speaking, running into people who speak the
English language who are natives of Canada are
significantly higher. And then there were rumors
going on then that if you went to Mexico and got
caught, it wouldn't do you any good because the
Mexicans would just send you back anyway, and that
the Canadians wouldn't. Now, whether or not any of
that was true or not wasn't as important as what you
believe was true. So Canada was a consideration,
just depending on how this draft thing went. I did
know that if I passed the pre-induction physical,
they weren't going to force me to stay on the base. I
would have an opportunity to leave and be expected
to come back. So I had some time to work with
formulating a final plan. An escape hatch, as it
were. Yeah, I had a way out if it got to that. Did you
have one in mind when they told you to come on to the
base? Suppose they had not given you the one Y that
day, what was your immediate option? Well, I was
really looking at a couple of options. All of them
involved leaving, which would have been fairly
easy for me to do then. I had a car and I could get
everything I owned in the car and was used to
traveling. It wasn't any any real problem for me to
hop into a car and just take off. I could certainly
have done that. I didn't really want to do that. I
had lots of friends in school, and I really wanted
to stay in school and work on my education at that
point in time. So I didn't have any final battle
plans. I was just kind of going along. You know the
thing that's really scary about all that, now that
I'm nearly 41, is I'm afraid that if I'd have passed
the physical, the absence of a real defined plan
and a thing to do, I may have just followed along
like sheep to the slaughter, which is the feeling I
get happen to a lot of people who didn't want to be
there and ended up going just because they didn't
have any other alternatives that they were ready
to pursue. I think I've jumped ahead a little bit.
Do you mind if I backtrack a little? No, not at all.
We've gotten as far as your years of getting into
the draft to 68. I want to backtrack a little bit to
64. OK. What was your first memory of LBJ?
Oh, I guess being sworn in as president after
Kennedy's assassination.
See, I wasn't a Texan then. The last time I'd lived
in Texas, I was too young to remember. And I'd lived
out in Kermit and McKamey, way out in West Texas.
That's before I even went to school as a toddler. So
LBJ didn't mean anything to me. I do remember the
swearing-in ceremony, but I had no real
impressions or knowledge of him or his politics or
anything else about him. Now, that changed as you
got older, I take it. Yeah, it became fairly
obvious that for one reason or another, whether he
was making the choices or his advisors were
convincing him it was the right thing to do, that
Vietnam had gone from a fairly minor skirmish out
in the woods somewhere to a major full-blown war
that they were trying to call a police action.
Things just got totally out of hand under his
leadership or lack of leadership, whichever way
that really went. Do you remember any of the
specific military operations being discussed in
the news, like their announcing of the bombings,
Rolling Thunder, stuff like that? Yeah, I have
some dim memories of that kind of stuff, of the
bombings of Hanoi and North Vietnam in general.
unauthorized raids into Cambodia and Laos,
places where they weren't supposed to be. I had
never had any doubt in my mind of the military's
capability to do things they weren't supposed to
do. I never, in any sense, doubted the
truthfulness of any of those stories. Of course, I
was a detractor from the war effort anyway, or a
non-supporter, I guess. So anything bad coming
out of Vietnam in the way of news, I believed
instantly without any real critical analysis.
Before the time you graduated high school, had any
thoughts crossed your head of maybe going out and
protesting or doing something active? No, and
that may have been, nobody was doing that in Hobbs,
New Mexico. What about Oklahoma City? It really
hadn't gotten to that level in Oklahoma City, at
least not in my age group, which would have been
high school junior. High school senior certainly
would have had some possibilities the way the war
was developing by that point in time, but not in a
town of 20,000 people with one high school. That's
just not the sort of thing that those size
communities lend themselves to. Now, is New
Mexico State located in Hobbs, or is it located
in... No, it's in Las Cruces. Las Cruces. Which is
several hundred miles away in another very small
town. What was the student atmosphere like at New
Mexico State, your first fall or spring semester
there? Well, the first semester there was summer
school, which is, as I'm sure you know, isn't any
real impression of what a campus and a university
is really like. So the first real semester would
have been the fall semester. of 66
and New Mexico State University then was
primarily an engineering school
and I don't guess it still is but a very serious
studious type of student body and not one really
given much to protesting at that point in time.
Although one wouldn't have described Lamar
University then as one either and we had some dandy
protests. So you'd say that, by and large, these
people were wrapped up in their studies. Yeah, and
I think a part of that was probably as much the time
as anything else. The real serious war protest
movement was starting in other places and was
going to take a while to filter down to some of your
smaller campuses and universities. What was the
first major college protest you remember? I
remember Kent State, but I can't tell you when it
even happened. It's really odd. You know, that was
a big deal. So you don't remember hearing about
anything like that while you were at New Mexico
State? No, I don't remember there being any big
protests at New Mexico State. Not the three
semesters that I was there. So then you came to
Beaumont and began working. What was the attitude
like in Beaumont at the time? I know it's a town that
would be classified as part of the old south,
but... Yeah, and I don't know that I can even tell
you. You know, when the first time you hit a town to
live, you're 19 years old, it's pretty difficult
to get oriented. You don't have a group to go into.
You're not going to school. I lived here the first
summer with my parents, and then they moved off
again in the ongoing pursuit of never moving. It
was a part of my dad's profession. And I don't know
that I had a sense of what was going on in Beaumont. I
was pretty wrapped up in my own deal. As soon as I was
sure that I'd lost the draft board and that they
really weren't going to try to find me and drag me
off kicking and screaming out of the night from my
apartment, I was pretty secure with most of that.
Went on about trying to get my own life ordered.
So you went to work, and then you ended up enrolling
at Lamar. Yeah, I enrolled at Lamar. Let's see,
this would have been the spring semester of 68, I
guess. 68. Those were funny times. What was it like
at Lamar back in spring 68?
You know, I don't know that I have any real hard,
specific things that I can remember that would
give me a sense of it all. I lived on campus, which
made me one of the unusual folks for Lamar, as
opposed to New Mexico State, where the only place
you could live was on campus. And that's just
because there wasn't any other housing
available, basically. There was a little bit, but
90% of the student body lived on campus. At Lamar,
it was completely reversed. So
there were people, the people that I knew were a
pretty small part of the campus, and those were the
folks who lived on campus. I don't know, I suppose
things were crazy at Lamar like they were
everywhere else back in 68. People going between
studies, having a good time, and being worried
about the wars and things like that. Let me
backtrack a bit for a sec. You said 90% of the
students at NMSU lived on campus, so you were in the
dorms. Yeah. Did y'all ever get together and rap
about your draft statuses, for example? Yeah, I
guess that's when I, certainly New Mexico State's
when I found out that everybody up in New Mexico
State except me, so far as I knew, everybody had a
student deferment. And I couldn't get one and
didn't understand why. My draft board would not
tell me why. And it was, you know, it was kind of hard
to understand
how I managed to achieve the exalted status of
being singled out for special treatment. But
sure, we talked about it. The guys with student
affirmants didn't worry about the war. Because as
long as student deferments were generally
available, and particularly as long as you as an
individual had one, you didn't have to worry too
much about the war. So they were just relatively
unconcerned? Oh, I wouldn't say unconcerned.
They weren't as concerned as those people who did
not have student deferments. There weren't many
of us out there at New Mexico State University.
Certainly there were some others. Do you remember
if they were planning on going into
the fields that you would construe as being part of
the war effort? Oh, no. Not that I was aware of. I
just keep getting the classic picture of the Dow
recruiters and people throwing eggs and oranges
at them, and I was wondering, did anything like
that happen at New Mexico State? No, not that I know
of. And that's a part of, you know, I was a freshman
in the Mexico State. There wasn't anybody
recruiting that I ran with. But I can't remember. I
know there were some people who were kind of
working towards aeronautics and aerospace types
of degrees.
but I don't really remember anybody being sought
after for the war effort, although I'm reasonably
certain back in those days they were bound to have
had their recruiting effort. I just can't
remember who the main recruiters were at New
Mexico State because I never went through that
process.
Back to Lamar. So you finished, you enrolled in
Lamar in the spring of 1968. Yeah, spring
semester, right. And it was fairly quiet for you,
getting back with your studies? Yeah, it was. I
can't remember really where the demonstrations
and stuff started out at Lamar, but I know most of
those were racially oriented, which I always
thought was kind of amusing anyway. Given my
attitude toward racial issues and real lack of
understanding of the Deep South, this was the
first time in my life I'd lived this close to It was
the only time in my life I can ever remember living
in an area where people thought it was really
important that blacks and whites not swim in the
same pool. That was a new one on me. That attitude
about segregation, I had never run across that
before. That was just amazing. Which is not to say
that attitude wasn't in some other places. I just
wasn't aware of it. But I thought a lot of folks like
that were strong. So the biggest concern down here
was racial issues? Seemed to be. See, we don't go
too much longer before I get lost in the war effort.
I can't remember when the lottery came out. The
military never called me back for a follow-up
physical. And at some point in time, I just can't
remember. It seems like maybe it was 69 or maybe 70
when they started the lottery system.
The lottery system, of course, the deal on the
lottery system was nobody was going to have
student deferments anymore, and everybody, you
know, you were all going to go based on numbers, and
they were going to draft certain age groups and
this thing. And it was very, very tumultuous
around the dorms during that period of time just
because of the unknowns of what was going to
happen. And I remember when they had the lottery. I
didn't actually go watch it on TV. I was doing
something else. But I remember my number was 364
and my roommate's number was 365. And we spent
weeks having water balloons tossed in our windows
and being harassed and ridiculed by people with
really exciting numbers like 19. Numbers like
that. And the people who'd whose lottery numbers
had come out in the under 100 were just, you know,
they thought life was at an end. And for the rest of
us, the war was over so far as we were. I figured at
364 they'd take women and children first before
they got around to me. How did that work? Was that
once a week they'd call up the numbers in order?
What happened was when you registered for the
draft from then on, you were assigned a number.
everybody in the Selective Service System was
assigned a number randomly. It's sort of the
famous ping-pong ball system. Here's a date. This
date gets X number. May 5th got 364.
Then they would draft beginning at number one, and
they'd call as many numbers as they needed to draft
people for whatever time slot they thought was
important. And I don't know if the military or
selective service was doing it on a weekly or a
monthly basis. But it was anticipated that they,
in any given year, would go through 100 or 150. Of
course, then for the next year, you'd have a whole
new crop of 18, 19-year-olds registering for the
draft who'd get their numbers. And the idea was
ultimately just to draft them. 18, 19-year-olds
for the draft because us older folks were so
difficult to manage. So by the time you turned 20,
you were relatively in the clear. Well, no,
because when I turned 20, that system wasn't in
place yet. I was in the anything-go system and hung
out there and couldn't get a student deferment.
The only thing saving my skin was a 1Y, and nobody
called me to go back to the doctor to be examined
again. But the good thing about the lottery, once
you got your number you had to serve one year of
eligibility. I served a year of eligibility with
the number 364 knowing that there's no way in the
world they're going to draft me. And then after
that I was reclassified 4F by the Selective
Service who apparently decided that Above all
else, it was important that they get the final word
in on Tom Rugg. And since I had been classified 1Y,
so far as they were concerned, and had served one
year of eligibility, never understood that, how
you could not be eligible and ineligible at the
same time. But it was just all a part of what I call
military logic. The terms don't really mesh well
together. But they did that, classified me 4F. I
appealed that. Why? I didn't want to be 4F. At that
point in time, the only people classifying 4Fs
were homosexuals and other undesirables. And it
potentially affected your employability. Every
employer used to go, when you went for an interview
for a job, One of the things every employer wanted
to know about a male applicant is your draft status
and your draft number. And 4Fs were not getting
treated well out in the workplace. So I didn't want
to be a 4F. Of course, nowadays, that doesn't mean
anything. Nobody cares about your draft status
anymore and didn't by the time I was ready to enter
the workforce. That's because I became a near
professional student before I was on there. But I
fought that and lost that battle, too, and my final
standing with the Selective Service System from
those years is a 4F. Until you ran out of eligible
years. Well, it's just 4F. I mean, I assume
somewhere there is a file with my name on it in the
Selective Service System somewhere that
documents all this delightful history. And who
knows? I guess if I really went and looked, I might
even be able to find a reason why I was unable to get a
student deferment I entered college. I don't care
anymore. It's all over. Let me jump back. Spring of
1968. Sure. Ted. Do you remember watching Ted on
the news? I'm sure I did, but I don't remember it
now. You know, there's a lot about Vietnam, but I'm
sure I knew what was going on and was aware of when it
was happening. But it is not a painful, I mean, it is
a painful memory now, that whole thing and what
this country went through and the number of guys my
age who never got to be my age because of some
asinine foreign policy this country pursued. And
there's a lot of that stuff I just, I don't remember
anymore that I'm sure I was quite well aware of
then. So you really don't remember watching
what's on the news and thinking, my God, What's
going on? Oh, you know, like I say, I don't remember
it now. I'm sure I was aware of it then. I mean, I know
that from my perspective, I never saw anything
about the Vietnam War that commended it to this
country's actions. This country was wrong, had no
business being in Vietnam, should not have been
there and donated a tremendous number of lives
over which this country had control and
resources. not to something that was doomed to
failure from the start. If you don't mind, I'm
going to switch sides of the tape. End of side one.